My role in the project is the development of a user-friendly interface that is understandable to users from different groups, on different platforms, so it should be as versatile as possible both in implementation and design. I will not focus much on design, but still, I will say a few words.
The interface consists of several web pages, on the first of which the main functions are presented and there is exactly that information that will quickly help the user understand for what tasks the project was created, how efficiently he copes with it and, of course, a quick start to try it out. The next page will be the regular expression compiler, this is a simple page on which several windows are located for working with input and output data, as well as a default example, is displayed in these fields, which helps to navigate faster. The user will be assisted by syntax highlighting implemented in the input fields. In the top bar of the page, there is a button for saving the result with the ability to save to a computer, as well as useful links to a separate page with documentation, where are located our author's tutorials and contact information for support and assistance.
Now I'll tell you about the technologies that were used to create the interface. Looking a little from afar, I will say that our application is available from a browser and has a web interface, which means that it is practically impossible to do without the basics of web programming, such as HTML, CSS and JavaScript. HTML is a markup language that almost all browsers support and is the standard on the Internet. CSS is the language responsible for the visual presentation of web pages. Due to it, the HTML page looks pleasant for the user, as well as all the web pages of the site, have the same design and style. JavaScript is an object-oriented programming language and was chosen for the front-end because the code can be executed by any modern browser. Due to it, the web page becomes interactive, and it plays an important role in our project, but at the same time, it is used in the simplest things, such as working with buttons, creating editor windows, connecting syntax highlighting. Syntax highlighting is implemented by adding a text editor ACE text editor to the web page and written custom rules to adapt its work with our language.
The project uses many technologies, but we had to abandon some of them for various reasons. There were dozens of such technologies, but one technology on which we ran for more than half a year did not meet our expectations. We are talking about WebAssambly, this technology was chosen for a reason, it allowed us to abandon the server and process all the code on the client computer, which increased reliability and performance, as well as reduced additional costs. In the process of project development, it became harder and harder to compile it and adapt it for work, complex functions and author's libraries made the process more complicated. This technology is great and helps to solve many problems and helps many projects, but unfortunately, it is still too new and weak, its support is not enough for serious projects.
The concept changed a bit and the team decided to use the tried-and-true methods using a backend. This technique has, of course, disadvantages, but there are more advantages, this will allow us to develop the project more intensively, and will also help to improve the functionality. The presence of a backend indicates the presence of a server both physically and in software. Since most of the project is written in Java, the logical decision was to write the server on it. Writing a server from scratch is not an easy task and it is not justified by anything, so it was decided to use the Spring framework. This allows us to make a reliable server that can work closely with both the compiler and the front-end.
In general, a lot of work was done and many branches of development were not successful, but this is all the experience that has benefited the development of the project. We have always chosen the optimal technologies that ensure reliable and stable operation of the system. We also do not stop there and always improve our project by introducing new functionality and design changes.